# State-Lockdown-Correlations
Comparing the relationship between length and earliness of "Lockdown" measures by each State to: "Time to Peak Deaths" Incident Rates, Mortality Rates, and Hospitalizations,







Data Sources:
COVID Deaths,Cases, and Rates:
https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19

State by State Lockdown Dates:

https://www.littler.com/publication-press/publication/stay-top-stay-home-list-statewide
https://www.usatoday.com/storytelling/coronavirus-reopening-america-map/

Please See link for Scatterplot's based on source data.
https://app.powerbi.com/reportEmbed?reportId=ee741c56-afc6-4a95-b9ec-a24b5deb6c21&autoAuth=true&ctid=945c199a-83a2-4e80-9f8c-5a91be5752dd&config=eyJjbHVzdGVyVXJsIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly93YWJpLXVzLW5vcnRoLWNlbnRyYWwtYy1wcmltYXJ5LXJlZGlyZWN0LmFuYWx5c2lzLndpbmRvd3MubmV0LyJ9


Explanations:
Peak Daily Deaths generated by using 7 day rolling average. 
Length of lockdowns comes from source above, and time between lockdown date and "peak deaths" determined by counting days between those two events.


Observations: 
Length of Lockdown vs Incident Rate- Moderate positive correlation. TAke with grain of salt as well as incident rate is calculated with confirmed case counts which is an under count. 

Correlation does NOT equal Causation, however, does this show that extended lockdowns certainly do NOT decrease your incident rate? Perhaps governors made lockdowns longer knowing they had higher proportion of population affected?- nope, that would not have been known at time of lockdown.

Testing Rate vs Incident Rate- Strong positive correlation - interpretation- the more you test, the more you find. TESTING IS WHAT DROVE UP THE "GROWTH" -

Length of Lockdown vs Time Between Lockdown and Peak Deaths: Moderate/weak(?) positive Correlation. Was this what we were TRYING to accomplish? Delaying inevitable? Slowing the growth to allow healthcare capacity?

Earliness of Lockdown Date vs Time Time Between Lockdown and Peak Deaths: weak(?) positive correlation (earlier is leftward, later is rightward). Does this suggest that the Date of Peak Deaths was defined by something OTHER than "lockdown" dates and that it had NOTHING to do with how quickly we acted? Is it possible that the EARLIER we "locked down" - the LONGER it took for Deaths to peak?

Length of Lockdown vs Hospitalization Rate: weak/moderate(?) postive correlation. Take with grain of salt as the hospitalization rate uses "case counts" which we know now are Extreme under-counts. Does this suggest that the longer the lockdown, the more people were hospitalized?

Length of Lockdown vs. Mortality Rate- weak/no correlation. (removed trendline because it was too flat). TAke with grain of salt as well as mortality is calculated with confirmed case counts which is an under count. Using Johns HOpkins CCSE data.


